Add blog for zero configuration Istio (#9025)
istio/istio.io: content/en/blog/2021/zero-config-istio/index.md

---
title: "Zero Configuration Istio"
description: Understanding the benefits Istio brings, even when no configuration is used.
publishdate: 2021-02-25
attribution: "John Howard (Google)"
---

Often times when a new user encounters Istio for the first time, they are overwhelmed by the vast feature
set exposed by Istio. Unfortunately, this occasionally gives the impression that Istio is needlessly complex
and not fit for small teams or clusters.

One great part about Istio, however, is that it aims to bring as much value to users out of the box without any configuration at all.
This enables users to get most of the benefits of Istio with minimal efforts. For some users with simple requirements, custom configurations
may never be required at all. Others will be able to incrementally add Istio configurations once they are more comfortable and as they need them, such as to add
ingress routing, fine-tune networking settings, or lock down security policies.

## Getting started

To get started, check out our [getting started](/docs/setup/getting-started/) documentation, where you will learn how to install Istio.

> If you are already familiar, you can simply run `istioctl install`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Essentially, you can simply run `istioctl install`, label your namespace and deploy your application pods.
```

Hostname=echo-cb96f8d94-879sn
Hostname=echo-cb96f8d94-879sn
Hostname=echo-cb96f8d94-879sn
Hostname=echo-cb96f8d94-879sn
Hostname=echo-cb96f8d94-879sn
Hostname=echo-cb96f8d94-879sn
{{< /text >}}

The problem here is Kubernetes will determine the backend to send at connection establishment, then all future requests on the same connection will be sent to the same backend.
In our example here, our first 5 requests are all sent to `echo-cb96f8d94-2ssll`, while our next set (using a new connection) are all sent to `echo-cb96f8d94-879sn`.
Our third instance never receives any requests.

With Istio, HTTP (including HTTP2 and gRPC) traffic is automatically detected, and our services will automatically be load balanced per request, rather than per connection:

{{< text bash >}}
$ curl http://echo/{0..5} -s | grep Hostname
Hostname=echo-cb96f8d94-wf4xk
Hostname=echo-cb96f8d94-rpfqz
Hostname=echo-cb96f8d94-cgmxr
Hostname=echo-cb96f8d94-wf4xk
Hostname=echo-cb96f8d94-rpfqz
Hostname=echo-cb96f8d94-cgmxr
{{< /text >}}

Here we can see our requests are [round-robin](/docs/concepts/traffic-management/#load-balancing-options) load balanced between all backends.

> In addition to these better defaults, Istio offers customization of a [variety of traffic management settings](/docs/concepts/traffic-management/), including timeouts, retries, and much more.

Reviewer: Are there any out-of-the-box default retry logic worth mentioning here?
